---
title: "Idleness"
date: 2014-12-18
---
On the back of a terrific semester and midst an extremely productive vacation, I
am back to subject you to more seemingly intelligent drivel. This one's not
going to contain technical mumbo-jumbo meaning you have one less excuse to run
away.

This one's going to be about idleness. And by that I don't mean being lazy,
     dormant, inactive or any other synonyms which I would generally use to give
     an honest account of myself. Idleness in the sense that you are forced to
     do nothing - absolutely nothing and you are only left with thinking to keep
     yourself entertained.

Due to circumstances, I was left in such a situation recently where I knew that
I had to deal with atleast 30 minutes of this 'idleness'.  I had grown used to
browsing reddit or watching Seinfeld whenever I had nothing to do or I felt like
doing nothing. I was perplexed by this challenge life has presented me. It was
new and I didn't like it. It was like encountering an old acquaintance and you
try to recollect what you did the last time you hung out together.  It's been a
very long time since I dealt with such idleness.  Once I got hold of the
objective - to keep myself entertained(or occupied) with no external help
whatsoever, things started to fall in place.  The infinitesimal portion of my
brain responsible for producing innovative/useful ideas gathered all its courage
to put in a strong word and had some jolly time before its wings were cut off.
The major portion of my brain which is responsible for making questionable
decisions like writing this post won out as usual and led my thought process
towards thinking about this forced idleness. I tried to recollect what I did in
similar situations previously. I had a hard time remembering the details, and I
settled towards the conclusion that random thought might have been the answer to
such testing situations in my past life. This time I decided I will control my
thought process in a more structured way - kind of like switching to manual from
autopilot. When I was thinking along those lines, I had this spark of an idea -
the kind of one you wouldn't want to act upon normally. It was to write about
this forced idleness and how people react to it.

For some reason, I thought it was a brilliant idea and here I am writing about
it - trying to churn out pointless drool. This idleness has become a rare
thing with the advent of smartphones, the interwebs and 'busier' lives .  I
would go as far as saying that this forced idleness is a boon in some way.  You
have no other way out except to think or plan. I don't know about others but it
was a long time before I took a step back and had an honest view of what's going
in my life and chalked out some vague plan for the immediate future. Most of our
thought process is reactionary. Almost every thought is a response to some
stimulus. Idleness allows you to have some seedish thought which is quite rare
in the modern urban life. 30 minutes of idle thinking is a long time when
compared to 30 minutes of watching a sitcom. It is not unreasonable to assume
that during these long periods of random thinking, you are bound to have(not in
    my case though) some ideas which are worth pondering/acting upon.  Whether
you act accordingly or not is another matter but the implantation of such
precious ideas is important (if the movie Inception rings a bell you would know
    where I am going). So in such enduring periods of idleness, you can stumble
upon something that can lead your life towards a whole new tangent. All this
might look a bit obvious, but hey I need to jot down something here.  I guess
all I want to say that is you rarely find yourself dealing such forced idleness,
    the next time you encounter it, cherish it.

Thus, I debunk the 'wise' old saying that
> An idle mind is the devil's workshop.

If that's the case, you are the devil.


No matter how bad this post turns out to be, I will be proud that I managed
to write something about nothing.





